.devcontainer/docs/DEVCONTAINER.md, before:

# Data Platform Development Container

This implementation of the development container is meant to have all repositories cloned into it under the persistent workspace `/home/vscode/workspace`. Once we begin our journey to the monorepo, this should become redundant. That means that right now, it is not intended to use this with GitHub Codespaces.

# Prerequisites

- macOS

- Homebrew

  ```bash
  /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
  ```

- Docker for Mac or Rancher Desktop

  ```bash
  brew install --cask docker
  # or
  brew install --cask rancher
  ```

- Node / NPM

  ```bash
  brew install node
  ```

- devcontainer CLI

  ```bash
  npm install --global @devcontainers/cli@latest
  ```

- Visual Studio Code

  ```bash
  brew install --cask visual-studio-code
  ```

  - Dev Containers Extension

    This command could fail as `code` might not be in your `${PATH}` yet, if that is the case, install it via Visual Studio Code's UI

    ```bash
    /usr/local/bin/code --install-extension ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers
    ```

---

# Using

Your GPG and SSH agents are mounted from macOS, so GPG and SSH commands inside the container will work without any configuration updates.

1. Clone this repository

1. Update your `~/.bashrc` or `~/.zshrc` to export your AWS IAM email address (Temporary until we all use AWS SSO)

   ```bash
   export MOJ_DATA_PLATFORM_AWS_IAM_EMAIL="firstname.lastname@digital.justice.gov.uk"
   ```

1. Launch Visual Studio Code

1. Reopen in Container

   ![image info](./img/vscode-devcontainer-ui.png)

1. Clone Analytical and Data Platform repositories straight into `~/workspace`

---

# Tools

## AWS Vault

1. Configure Landing Account

   ```bash
   $ aws-vault add analytical-platform-landing
   ```

## Kubernetes CLI

The supplied `~/.kube/config`:

1. Invokes a wrapper for authenticating to EKS using AWS Vault. If you're in an AWS Vault sub-shell, it will not call AWS Vault

1. Has the default context to the development EKS cluster

---

# Developing

## Testing a feature

1. Run script

   ```bash
   bash .devcontainer/hack/feature-test.sh ${FEATURE_NAME}
   ```

### Debugging a feature

1. Run base image

   ```bash
   docker run -it --rm \
     --volume $( pwd ):/workspace \
     --volume $( pwd )/.devcontainer/features/src/base/devcontainer-utils:/usr/local/bin/devcontainer-utils \
       mcr.microsoft.com/devcontainers/base:ubuntu
   ```

1. Test feature

   ```bash
   bash -x /workspace/.devcontainer/features/src/<feature>/install-<tool>.sh
   ```

Commit message:

Added vanilla Cloud Platform context

.devcontainer/docs/DEVCONTAINER.md, after:

# Data Platform Development Container

This implementation of the development container is meant to have all repositories cloned into it under the persistent workspace `/home/vscode/workspace`. Once we begin our journey to the monorepo, this should become redundant. That means that right now, it is not intended to use this with GitHub Codespaces.

# Prerequisites

- macOS

- Homebrew

  ```bash
  /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
  ```

- Docker for Mac or Rancher Desktop

  ```bash
  brew install --cask docker
  # or
  brew install --cask rancher
  ```

- Node / NPM

  ```bash
  brew install node
  ```

- devcontainer CLI

  ```bash
  npm install --global @devcontainers/cli@latest
  ```

- Visual Studio Code

  ```bash
  brew install --cask visual-studio-code
  ```

  - Dev Containers Extension

    This command could fail as `code` might not be in your `${PATH}` yet, if that is the case, install it via Visual Studio Code's UI

    ```bash
    /usr/local/bin/code --install-extension ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers
    ```

---

# Using

Your GPG and SSH agents are mounted from macOS, so GPG and SSH commands inside the container will work without any configuration updates.

1. Clone this repository

1. Update your `~/.bashrc` or `~/.zshrc` to export your AWS IAM email address (Temporary until we all use AWS SSO)

   ```bash
   export MOJ_DATA_PLATFORM_AWS_IAM_EMAIL="firstname.lastname@digital.justice.gov.uk"
   ```

1. Launch Visual Studio Code

1. Reopen in Container

   ![image info](./img/vscode-devcontainer-ui.png)

1. Clone Analytical and Data Platform repositories straight into `~/workspace`

---

# Tools

## AWS Vault

1. Configure Landing Account

   ```bash
   $ aws-vault add analytical-platform-landing
   ```

## Kubernetes CLI

The supplied `~/.kube/config`:

1. Invokes a wrapper for authenticating with Analytical Platform's EKS clusters using AWS Vault, if you're in an AWS Vault sub-shell, it will not call AWS Vault

1. Has no default context set, you can view with `kubectl config get-contexts` and set with `kubectl config use-context ${CONTEXT_NAME}`

### Cloud Platform Authentication

> Rebuilding will remove your Cloud Platform credentials

1. Login to Cloud Platform Kuberos (https://login.cloud-platform.service.justice.gov.uk/)

1. Obtain the command from "Authenticate Manually"

1. Replace your Auth0 email with the generic string

    kubectl config set-credentials "auth0" \
      --auth-provider=oidc \
      --auth-provider-arg=client-id="..." \
      --auth-provider-arg=client-secret="..." \
      --auth-provider-arg=id-token="..." \
      --auth-provider-arg=refresh-token="..." \
      --auth-provider-arg=idp-issuer-url="https://justice-cloud-platform.eu.auth0.com/"

1. Set Cloud Platform to the current context

    kubectl config use-context live.cloud-platform.service.justice.gov.uk

---

# Developing

## Testing a feature

1. Run script

   ```bash
   bash .devcontainer/hack/feature-test.sh ${FEATURE_NAME}
   ```

### Debugging a feature

1. Run base image

   ```bash
   docker run -it --rm \
     --volume $( pwd ):/workspace \
     --volume $( pwd )/.devcontainer/features/src/base/devcontainer-utils:/usr/local/bin/devcontainer-utils \
       mcr.microsoft.com/devcontainers/base:ubuntu
   ```

1. Test feature

   ```bash
   bash -x /workspace/.devcontainer/features/src/<feature>/install-<tool>.sh
   ```
